The instructions below apply to Owl 2.0 and newer (until revised).  For
older versions of Owl, please refer to Owl/doc/INSTALL as included in
the "native" tree for your version (that's
/usr/src/world/native/Owl*/doc/INSTALL on the CDs).

Currently, there are two primary ways to install Owl, -- by booting off
an Owl CD or by using another Linux installation you may already have.


	Installing from a local CD-ROM drive.

If you don't already have an Owl CD, please either order one or see
DOWNLOAD for locations where you may obtain the ISO-9660 CD images and
burn one onto a CD-R.

The Owl CDs for x86 are bootable, so if your machine supports booting
off a CD just do so.  Otherwise take the boot floppy image from the CD
under boot/floppy.image, write it onto a formatted 1.44 MB floppy
(with dd(1) or an equivalent tool), and boot off the floppy.  In
either case, the boot loader will prompt you for your CD-ROM device
which the kernel will use for the root filesystem.  If you're using an
IDE CD-ROM drive, select the proper IDE controller and whether the
drive is set to master or slave.  If you're using a SCSI CD-ROM drive,
select "scsi".

Owl should boot into single user mode.  Once in the shell, you can
optionally configure the CD-booted system by simply typing:

	setup

The configuration will be stored in RAM (parts of /etc and /var are on
a ramdisk).  You may then exit the shell to let the system boot into
multi-user mode.  Of course, this step is optional and is only needed if
it is more convenient to complete the installation while in multi-user
mode (e.g., operating from a remote workstation) or if you intend to
actually use the CD-booted Owl without installing on a hard disk.

To actually install Owl, type:

	settle

This will invoke the installer that will guide you through the
installation process.

Please note that the installer currently does not install kernel
sources.  If you would like to build a custom kernel (which is
recommended), you need to copy the kernel sources off the CD manually.


	Using an existing Linux installation.

Note: these requirements and instructions are only relevant to you if
you chose to not install from an Owl CD for whatever reason.  Most
people use a CD and don't need this.

A suitable Linux installation needs to offer some GNU tools and
rpm2cpio.  It does not have to use RPM as its package manager.

You need to prepare the usual /usr/src/world setup as explained in
BUILD.  Then proceed to install the new system:

Use fdisk(8) to partition your disks for Owl as desired.  Use mkfs(8)
and mkswap(8) to create filesystems and initialize swap space.  Use
mount(8) to mount the new root filesystem at /owl.  Similarly, mount
any additional filesystems at their appropriate locations under /owl.
To actually install Owl, change directory to /usr/src/world and type:

	make installworld && make setup

If there are any problems during the "installworld" stage (watch for
the "Failed" lines), correct their cause and re-run the command.

Once the Owl userland is installed, you need to also install a kernel
and configure a boot loader.  Owl currently does not provide a pre-built
kernel other than on the CDs, so you will need to either build the
kernel from source (recommended) or copy the kernel image (/boot/bzImage
and /boot/System.map) off an Owl CD.

Note that the kernel build and the boot loader setup need to be done
chrooted to your newly installed userland:

	chroot /owl

Currently, Owl supports Linux 2.4.x kernels.  We recommend that you use
the version provided with your copy of Owl.

You may choose to configure the boot loader available with Owl (LILO
or SILO, depending on the architecture), or you may use a boot loader
already installed on the system (if any).

Once the installation is complete, make sure to manually unmount the
filesystems with umount(8) prior to rebooting the system.

$Owl: Owl/doc/INSTALL,v 1.20 2006/02/02 10:33:35 solar Exp $
