This is the public Owl TODO list.  Currently, it focuses on items
relevant to our upcoming release.


	Required before the next release.

Update to latest OpenVZ "rhel5" kernel.  If required, add fixes for the
most relevant and most critical recently-discovered vulnerabilities not
fixed in OpenVZ's kernel yet.  ("New" vulnerabilities in 2.6.x kernels
are discovered so often that there will almost always be some that are
already-public but not yet fixed in Red Hat's and OpenVZ's latest
released kernels yet, because of their QA delay.  A reasonable approach
may be to identify and fix the most relevant and most critical of those
vulnerabilities ourselves.  Luckily, most are not relevant and/or not
critical, but a few might be.  We'll see what the situation will be
shortly before our release.)

Bring the documentation translations in sync with English (or drop from
the release).  For example, translations of ARCHITECTURES are currently
outdated as it relates to i386 vs. i686.


	Desirable before the next release.

RPM'ed and modular kernel.  We have outgrown the stage of being a "do it
yourself" system, so it makes sense to have our default kernel RPM'ed,
finally.  Also, our kernels barely fit on 2.88 MB "floppies" now, which
means that soon we'll have to start building kernel modules by default
(and it'd be better to have those in an RPM subpackage), or switch to
"non-emulated" CD boots (maybe this would be a good thing to do anyway,
for modern machines?), or fully drop features from default kernel builds.

Start using initrd on our CDs - autodetect CD/DVD drive location, wait
for USB - or consider alternatives to initrd that would achieve the same.

Start to implement security hardening of OpenVZ kernels.

Make ping(1) working as non-root, likely with "ICMP sockets" to be
introduced into the kernel (preferably restricted to a sysctl'able group).
This will get rid of the very last SUID program in our default install,
hence it is pretty important.

Introduce new /etc/sysconfig/ settings for unattended machines (force
"yes" to fsck, msulogin timeout, disable console screensaver, ...)

Debug and fix sysklogd-1.4.2-owl-syslogd-unixcred.diff, which is
currently confused by many kinds of kernel messages (especially with
CONFIG_PRINTK_TIME, but not only in that case).

Replace our hybrid 2.4+2.6 modutils with plain module-init-tools.

Update whatever packages we manage to, but don't break RHEL 4 compatibility
(we'll break it after the release).

Package xz utils - easy, but it'd be nice to have at least a quick look
at the code first (vulnerabilities are expected).

User's Guide - review and edit the draft, identify and add important
missing chapters (adding/removing users, managing OpenVZ containers,
maybe something else).

Consider adding support for ext4 into owl-setup.  If so, enable it in
our default kernel (this will require dealing with the kernel size issue
mentioned above first).  We already have support in the kernel sources
and in our e2fsprogs.

SPARC, Alpha - builds, testing, fixes, final builds.  We haven't been
building Owl for these architectures for a while.  Possibly this is not
worth the time as it would delay the release.  Maybe it could be done
post-release, for the stable branch.

Switch the SSH client to use protocol 2 by default, finally.

Consider/implement Perl Safe.pm bypass fixes (update the module?)

Update the on-demand CD sales setup with Owl-current ISO snapshots
shortly before making the release, to have the setup ready for being
updated to the release.  Setup separate "products" for i686 and x86-64.

$Owl: Owl/doc/TODO,v 1.189 2010/05/22 15:26:19 solar Exp $
